---
title: "Retrospective for 2019"
subtitle: ""
excerpt: "The year in review"
author: "Mike Hallett"
date: 2019-01-21
draft: false
images:
series:
tags:
categories:
layout: post
---


- We'd like to congratulation our long-time collaborator and provider of deep insight, Vanessa Dumeaux, for receiving two start-up grants. Our lab is proud to be collaborating on a PERFORM project entitled __microbe-2-brain__ that explores correlations between the gut microbiome, the systemic response, and brain patterns of over-weight individuals undergoing an exercise intervention. 

- The second project is a Team Startup/Accelarator grant that will build a __high-resolution map of cancer immunity in HER2+ breast cancer__ patients.

- We would also like to congratulate Vicky Brunet who recently was awarded an NSERC USRA. She will be joining our lab this summer to work on projects related to the human gut microbiome. April

- Lastly, we would like to congratulate Mathieu Harb, a new master's student in our lab, who received a scholarship from the NSERC CREATE Synthetic Biology program for two years.  April 

- Esko Ukkonen visited Concordia and gave a seminar.  April

- Congratulations to Sanny Khurdia  for his successful application for a graduate scholarship at the PERFORM centre at Concordia. This will allow Sanny to explore single cell approaches in the context of the human gut microbiome, complementing a project led by our long time collaborator Vanessa Dumeaux. Thank you also to PERFORM and the work of the evaluation committee!  May

- My application to Concordia for permission to search for a Tier II Canada Research Chair in Cellular Systems Design was successful. (This eventually led to the hiring of Elena Kuzmin in the Department of Biology.)  May

-  Our introduction to bioinformatics, biological data science and computational biology has been shifted from the winter to fall terms. It will start in September 2019.  [Course Web Page](/teaching/). June




