---
layout: blog
title: Postdoctoral Position in Cancer informatics and statistics 
author: Mike Hallett
---


My collaborators and I have a posdoctoral position open  related to a project in cancer genomics and informatics, specifically breast
ductal in situ carcinoma (DCIS). 
The project is led by a multidisciplinary team  comprised of Dr V Dumeaux at Concordia (Montreal), Dr E Rakovitch at Sunnybrook Hospital (Toronto), myself and collaborators at 
the OICR (Toronto), UBC (Vancouver) and MD Anderson (Texas), providing an excellent training environment.
This is a CIHR funded project and involves the analysis of a large collection of 
profiles of DCIS tumors towards specific clinical end-points. 

We really need someone here who has a solid background in statistics and data science, preferably with  previous experience in the genomics and bioinformatics arenas.
The position would be co-superivsed by Dr Dumeaux and myself. We are happy to work with you to provide a sufficient level of understanding with respect to the underlying biology and clinical aspects of the project.

Ideal candidates will have:
- Ph.D. in biostatistics, computational biology, data science, epidemiology, or related disciplines
- expertise in manipulation, analysis, and visualization of high-throughput genomics data
- programming experience using R and/or Python.

Duration: 1 year (but with potential for longer)
Salary: 60K / year + benefits
Location: Canada (Montreal or remotely within the country)


Please send a CV to <a href="mailto:michael.hallett@concordia.ca">mail</a>.  Please ensure that you describe your previous academic training, research experience or other items you deem relevant to this position.